Oh, that's wonderful.
A lot of authorities come to visit.
I intended to phone with my friend.
I beg your pardon, I'm sorry.
I think last week when I was informed on your visit,
And then I just intended to invite him.
Oh, good.
Go on.
He can take the time.
By chance, entirely by chance this morning, for one or two days in Milan, to stand there.
visiting the library, and he visited already the art gallery.
Now, do you have... I'm very sorry, I don't suppose it's this polite, but since it is 3 o'clock, the library and the art gallery will close at 5.30.
and then how many times... We should be able to do what we have to do in that time, and if it's not sufficient, we'll come back tomorrow.
But I think we can do it in that time.
If so, since tomorrow we have a long meeting all the day.
We are told now, and tomorrow you can visit along with your wife and introduce you in the art gallery.
So we say, I suppose, at least half of time, because the art gallery is extremely wonderful.
If I try to introduce you to that reflection, we will not survive, and tomorrow we cannot.
OK, that's wonderful.
You are very generous with your time.
The art gallery starts on that side, and you will see, and there is the exhibit here of the book.
Oh, I can order one?
But this is the Italian edition.
Good, I was also to buy one in Italian, but I'll wait for the English.
It's just in print.
Yes, it was wonderful.
This is the art of the art gallery, but at the same time is the catalog.
Father, was this established as a gallery and a library at the same time?
We really found it.
To have a look and then to go to the room, to the center and to the wall.
This is the old statue.
Sometime, in 1927, it was 511.
It was the statue of Popeye Slamath.
He was Librarian here.
He was Librarian.
He was Librarian here for 14 years.
Wow.
He died in 1939.
Achillerat is almost famous because, for many reasons, he wrote the encyclical against the Nazis.
I've read something about that recently, isn't it?
That's been on the note, yes.
You should see that, did you take it?
I did, yes.
You can put that away, I'll just keep this one in the next.
Thank you.
This is called the Reading Room.
These people, mostly, I think, universities.
I am.
I'm sorry.
It's a cross that was a cloister.
The cross of the Renaissance Dominican monastery.
It was a Dominican cloister.
Now it's arranged in such a way.
This is devoted to Pope Ratti Achillerati.
We enter now.
This is the old building created in 1609.
This is 1609.
Can we continue?
The main reading room of the later version is called for painting down the end of nature.
Actually, there are just those of us originally.
21,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,
That book in English, was it that long?
What is the nature of these books?
It was created in 1609, from the Roman Empire.
It came from one street of Milan, and the street was restored, and the monarch of the 4th century was a 4th century.
The Forum Romanum, Roman Forum, is right down.
The library has been built on the ground of the Forum Romanum.
It means the center of the land is the side of the temple.
It is built on the side of the Forum Romanum.
The Forum Romanum is on the ground, the side of the temple.
The heart of the temple was recovered when he was found in the temple seven years ago.
discovered when you did the restoration.
You could take pictures.
Soren with one of the one of the systems.
This is the perception of the scientific theory of the people in Israel, to each form only one man.
Also, this is me.
I can describe it elsewhere in the Bible.
The original entrance was that one and the people entered on the south, like in China.
The south gate is always the best.
So this is 1609.
1609.
This is quite unbelievable.
And these books, are they 17th century books?
Most of our books are, but we changed the place now, according to the development of the century, so there are no books originally, they were moved from one side to another side during four centuries.
I've never seen anything like that.
M-A-M-G-O-N-E Fabio
Do you call it a voltage ceiling and a voltage?
We call that Botte.
Botte is a big, contains wine.
I don't know the name of it.
We call it a wine cat.
B-O-T-T-E.
Botte.
Was this all part of the restoration too?
Was the original floor like this?
No.
But this was in the case that it was chosen by the sort of late 1933.
Did you say the original was better?
Oh yeah, I believe, I'm almost sure, because the man, Borromeo, was really one of the rights managers and the man said it had so much money for everything.
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17, 17,
Eighteen shells on two levels.
Eighteen rows of shells on two levels.
Look at the color coming up, the light.
This is worth the whole chest and alarm idea.
This is really quite wonderful.
Magnificent.
Around the second war of the war.
Did the original room have glass there too?
How is this room for, did the books stay in good condition?
Is the circulation good in here?
It doesn't look like it.
And you can see from this point, one can see the school of the Academy of Painting.
and what was intended to be on that piece up there i wonder the date or i wonder
I'll bet something, I'll bet there was an inscription or something.
That's wonderful.
But you made it to conform to the... You cannot have the idea of the richness
you will have now the idea of the richness in another room, which was not restored except, and this is very modern.
What does that say?
It's just because one richest man of Milan in the year 1972, no, in 1972, he gave
a lot of people.
I'll take a picture without a flash, okay?
This is just very modern.
Just wait a moment.
This is wonderful.
That's the coat of iron.
So two fields, one is to open and one to close.
According to the gospel, Peter received the power to judge all the culture.
the government, one of the powers to assault, I mean to open, or to condemn, to close.
Is that a picture of the Ambrosiana?
No.
It's a picture of another church in which the library, given as a gift by this person,
was before to come to us.
I see.
It's just Santa Maria preso Sanchez, so another choice.
The name is before and then moved to us.
And then the books are here now.
This is it?
More or less.
We'll move the books of course from time to time.
This is the very best of texts that I've found out here, but the edificio is still there before.
Are these paintings period paintings?
I mean, are they authentic to... Yeah, they are authentic of Gioglio, Paolo Gioglio, one of the painters of the... Paolo Gioglio, of the school of Gioglio.
So these are 300 years old?
Yeah, they are important.
Very important because we can see the true fate of the people.
Because the start of the retrace, of the portrait,
portraits in the modern way, sort of in the center of those people.
And I want to have the faith of the Lysanias, of Cardinals, of scientists, along all the Lysanias.
If we have books, then the Cardinal has to have the faith.
If we have a book of somebody, then we need all the paintings.
The connection between the visual, the video, and the book.
This was of course intrinsic to the fact that to have an Academy of Arts and a library.
I've never heard of that before.
If somebody gave you their books,
Then you honored them by having their portrait painted.
Just as you take pictures, it's precisely the same idea.
So did all of these religious people have good, strong libraries?
Yes, but those are not only religious people, politicians are businessmen.
From all watches life.
Yes.
This is a modern life that is given by these people.
Let's look.
And did they, did they, they gave the money to do this too, probably?
Yeah, they gave around 30 million dollars, 35, 40 million dollars, something like this.
So this is an old noble family of... Not this one.
No, no, no, this one I don't know.
I'm talking about the money given by the bank, the bank of Milano, the bank of Milano for over seven years.
Gave around every year $6 million every year.
That's wonderful.
Complete responsibility to the Lord.
Would you describe that?
What do you call that color?
That.
Huh?
Aquamarine or pistachio, my wife thought.
The decorations are extraordinary.
Is that plaster or is that...
carving in stone I wonder.
That's amazing.
Now let's compare our mission role.
I see it.
So this, in any case, just besides the library was the oldest apotheque of Milan.
Apotheque, pharmacy.
Apotheque?
Apotheque of Milan.
The Renaissance time.
This will come from that place.
Now we just walk around and we enter.
Now it's a part of the library, but in the beginning, in the renaissance time, the 50th century was not a part of the library.
It was the oldest pharmacy of the city.
And the pharmacists were working fresh.
Now it's our meeting room.
I hope you enjoy the rest of the day.
Do you have sprinkler systems in here?
Just systems, fire prevention systems?
Yes, yes.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Oh, I see.
Good.
Oh, they're very, very, you don't notice them.
They're good.
Let's draw all that veteran respiration.
Thank you.
Oh, look at the courtyard.
We are now in between the art gallery, the library, and then all the court.
Court.
I only suggest which kind of tree I want to do.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Where do you see the manuscripts now?
Do you have a vault for the manuscripts?
To have like a big university institution for sciences and that
So they were actually, that was part of the mandate to go out and find, to go out and collect money.
He find many employers, many experts.
He had a lot of money, but he don't have any problem for money.
He find, over other words, professors, experts to buy manuscripts in Arabic,
in Greek, Hebrew, Syriac, Latin and from all other sciences, music, painting, medicine, architecture and theology of course, etc.
What was the stimulus, do you think?
What was the motivation?
For him?
Yes.
Well, he had the intention, the idea of the Renaissance time that the man is the center of the universe and every human activity in art and science is, of course, the center of the human activity of the world.
The sacred beauty was the idea of the Renaissance style, to have a harmony between all the sections of the universe, the spirit, the matter, the material reality.
It is why the picture, sculpture, sculpture is matter, something is tall.
It's just an example.
Was this established, you think, as a
He was himself a scholar, though he wrote all the books himself, this cardinal.
He told all those theories in his books.
Do you think this was his response to the Reformation at all, this library?
In his idea, in a certain way, but he was a man of the spirit of the Renaissance, not so under condition of the Reformation.
not moved by Ptolemy second.
But almost as a reaffirmation in a way.
Man of the Renaissance, don't take such idea.
The Renaissance time is the glory of man, it's expressed by the Sistina creation of Michelangelo.
So, all those are matters for the
No, the idea of the harmony of the universe between God and man, the human reality.
Tell us a little bit about this mural here, I guess it's a mural, right?
This was the principal contemporary of Leonardo, Bernardino Willis, the author of that.
Really?
And the pharmacist.
the cooperative group of the pharmacists there and they paid him to create that wonderful.
So this painting is how old?
1492, something like that.
We are at that place where those people were working, selling the medicine.
So this was a pharmacist's shop?
Yes.
No, the pharmacist's laboratory.
They met and they fell to the people of Milan.
Those are the pharmacists.
They played Bernardino and Winnie to have a letter as a symbol of their power.
The painters were always using them as a symbol of power.
Patronijai, they called them.
This was all from Patronijai.
How many volumes would you say you have here?
Well, the last evaluation is less than half million for 416,000.
What would you say your special strengths are in?
The area?
Your special strengths, what would you say the collection is especially strong in?
And that man, really many many things, the history of the arts, arts history, many arts, including music, culture, and of course the
Oh, I see.
Eastern studies in 90 years.
One main idea of the Calvary and the Pounder, when we have the largest Yemenite collection of Arabic manuscripts from Yemen, for example.
Really clear.
2000 Arabian Arabic manuscripts from Yemen.
And are they used?
We show you the back catalogs.
We are, of course, in contact with the universities of Egypt, Jordan, Iran, Israel.
2000.
And at what period, roughly?
Well, we began from, for example, those are just a part of the Arabians who we have, Islam Yemen.
We have an old copy of the Koran of the 9th century, for example, and many of you will see now the picture.
What would you say is the most precious?
I don't mean in terms of money, that's ridiculous, you can't put a price on these things.
but in terms of what would you say are the most treasured?
It's very difficult to have so many... For example, the library has contained the...
of a big volume depicted in the 4th century in Alexandria.
And then the oldest example of the art of Alexandria of Egypt.
and presumably it comes from Alexandria because the library of Alexandria was buried by sire many times by Julius Caesar and Antonio during the war of Cleopatra and then in 14th century by the series of Alexandria, the bishops of Alexandria
He was a woman, the librarian at that time, also put to the fire by a century.
Who was put to the fire?
A librarian?
The librarian.
I'm writing about librarians too.
Did you say that a librarian was executed?
The library go to fire in Alexander, but this work was at the time of Cyril or Alexander.
Is it?
Yes.
...was fired in the Library of Alexandria.
But some books come here from the area of Alexandria, and though we can presume that we have some books from Alexandria, a very old library.
In fact, we have.
You said so?
No, because the people were sent to the Monastery of Santa Caterina of Egypt, to Cairo and to Jerusalem, to buy our books.
So our books came, actually, and were bought by the Cardinals,
And they came from that region.
So he sent agents out to buy books.
He sent people to Egypt and to, at least not only to Egypt, but for that case, to Egypt.
Were they booksellers or were they priests?
No.
Travelers.
How do you tell?
I don't know.
People, they granted to go.
They were able to make contracts and they were also experts.
for those languages and they buy excellent books in fact.
Some of them with the money simply never come back.
Will we be able to see a few things?
Will you be able to show us a few things?
And this is not allowed.
I already asked for the permission but this is not.
But the reproduction we can see in the reading library now, the reading room.
There was an idea of Virgilius which was formed by Francesco Petzalca, the great man of our time.
That's correct.
His books are here?
He said Francesco Petzalca lived some years in Iran.
He wrote himself a note when Laura died, he wrote himself a priest.
I know now that Laura died.
51,000 pages.
Can we see anything?
We will display the next year.
Actually, only the copies we can try to see.
The library opened two weeks ago.
and there are a lot of visitors and we cannot supply all the extra requests because there are a lot of crowd of people asking so much.
This is why also Monsignor Ravaze asked me to receive you on SBI also.
Sure, this is wonderful.
I can't believe you inspired me.
Was it always exposed?
Was it always visible?
Or was it ever covered up?
During the war in the war, during war in the war, too, this was fire and it was safe.
They put some defense and it was safe.
And this was fire.
Look upstairs, there's time out over here.
What does that say up there?
His head, the head of the king, Capet Regis.
King of head, of glory, Gloria, of glory.
Regis is the king.
Capet is the head.
Capet because this is the crown of the... You see Jesus having a crown on his beard.
crown of the pick.
Thorns we call them.
This is the crown.
And then skin is coronate means is crowned by the skin.
The thorns, we call them thorns.
Thorns.
I don't know that this word is... H-O-R-N
Yeah, so much.
Coronato is the crown, Gloria is the glory, and then the head of the king of the glory.
is crowned by Trump.
Now how do you know which painter did this?
Did he sign it?
Just the records indicate that he did it.
This is the fresco.
And then it's first dressed on the walls and then immediately painted by the technique of the fresco.
and it lasted all these years to me the fresco remains for thousands of years
Will you have the name of somebody I can call at the Capitula Library in Verona tomorrow?
In Italy there are actually
We call that not church library, ecclesiastical library because church library has a different juridical meaning.
So we don't use church library.
Church is another juridical body.
Ecclesiastical library is our expression.
And what's the total number of books?
27 million.
Wow.
112,000 manuscripts.
And 1,469 ecclesiastical libraries.
And this is the book which is...
The annual, yeah, annual, they published by... Did you have this book?
Yeah, because the association published, it's just, it's a co-write for the editors, the editor for the writing.
Yeah, exactly.
It's a new...
And this is this channel right here.
Luciano, L-C-I-A-N.
What is the ISBN?
Look at that, so 8-8.
This is just the number, the International Statue of the Bibliotheism.
Yes, but that identifies the book.
I can now find this book.
She worked strongly for that.
Everything is on the database.
Small libraries have one
Extremely ancient and decorative manuscripts in every library has at least one treasure.
Cambogiano has a lot, but there are divided in many... Every library has at least one treasure.
That's right.
Maybe if you could show us a few more things before they close, because we're probably going to go to parole tomorrow.
Thank you.
I tracked the library until...
at the library until his death.
That's the provenance.
After 1374, a family of Petrarch's friend Dundee d'Aloravoglio Viscondi family.
Probably going to work out.
So that's the provenance in possession of the Latimafé, who after his death was purchased by the bibliothèque in Brajama.
So it was purchased by...
I have written any civil rights.
have to be
What is your title?
My name is Dr. Richard Boston.